Source URL: https://tds.s-anand.net/#/2025-01/


Paragraphs:

Tools in Data Scienceis a practical diploma level data science course at IIT Madras that teaches
popular tools for sourcing data, transforming it, analyzing it, communicating these as visual stories, and deploying them in production.
Courses teach you programming and data science. From statistics to algorithms to writing Python code to building models.
But one critical subject that’s rarely covered is: what tools should I pick and how do I become proficient in them?
These tools might not help your CV much. But they will make things easier in real life. For example, at school:
“We lost the documentation on quantum mechanics. You’ll have to decode the regexes yourself.”
In this course, we’ve curated the most important tools people use in data science.
Learn them well. You’ll be alotmore productivethan your peers.
Here’s students’ feedback:
Take Graded assignment 1to check if you’re ready for this course.Please drop this course (do it in a later term) if you score low. It’ll be too tough for you now.
You need agoodunderstanding of Python, JavaScript, HTML, HTTP, Excel, and data science concepts.
But isn’t this a data science course?Yes. Good data scientists are good programmers. Data scientists don’t just analyze data or train models. They source data, clean it, transform it, visualize it, deploy it, and automate the whole process.
In some organizations, some of this work is done by others (e.g. data engineers, IT teams, etc.). But wherever you are,someof the time, you need to write code for all of this yourself.
This course teaches you tools that will make you more productive. But youdoneed programming to learn many of them.
YouCANcopy from friends. You can work in groups. You can share code. Even in projects, assignments, and exams (except the final end-term exam).
Why should you copy?Because in real life, there’s no time to re-invent the wheel. You’ll be working in teams on the shoulders of giants. It’s important to learn how to do that well.
To learn well, understandwhat you’re copying. If you’re short of time, prioritize.
To learn better, teachwhat you’ve learnt.
The content evolves with technology and feedback.
Track thecommit historyfor changes.
Released content:
Project 1to build an LLM-based automation agent.Discussion Thread
Work in progress:
Check these three links regularly to keep up with the course.
Theirjobis to help you. Trouble them for your slightest doubts!


Image URLs:

https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/lisp.jpg
